# Ames-ML-Project
Over the past decade, the real estate industry has extensively leveraged machine learning to gain a better understanding of house characteristics that influence selling price. Companies have successfully used sophisticated statistical techniques to predict housing prices due to the abundance of available data, resulting in well-performing models. By sharing certain patterns and relationships from their analytical work with the general public, both buyers and sellers have been able to make more informed real estate decisions. However, given the constantly changing and evolving nature of the housing industry, there is a significant need for further progress in predictive analytics.
The aim of this research is to illustrate previously established factors that influence housing prices and identify potential new ones using the Ames housing dataset (2011). The dataset provides a wealth of information on 2,930 homes in Ames, Iowa, detailing 81 features that describe a range of property attributes. These features range from the above-ground square footage and selling price to the number of garage doors the homes have. All of the transactions for selling the homes were completed between the years 2006 and 2010. Additionally, the Ames, Iowa housing market is representative of mid-sized cities in the United States, making trained models on this dataset transferable to many similar cities.
To build the machine learning models in this research, several steps were taken. Initially, data cleaning steps were completed, such as changing data types, and feature engineering was implemented to produce new variables from the data. Once the data was tidied, a robust exploratory data analysis was conducted, including descriptive statistics, visualization using various techniques, and multiple statistical tests. Finally, the models were built, evaluated for their performance, and compared to each other.

